# Setting up and Login

## Index

- [Setting up and Login](#setting-up-and-login)
  - [Index](#index)
  - [1. Check the installed version and login status](#1-check-the-installed-version-and-login-status)
    - [Get CLI version and login status](#get-cli-version-and-login-status)
  - [2. Initial setup for CLI for Microsoft 365](#2-initial-setup-for-cli-for-microsoft-365)
    - [Initial setup - with auto setup of Entra ID App](#initial-setup---with-auto-setup-of-entra-id-app)
      - [Testing the command](#testing-the-command)
    - [Initial setup - Manually creating Entra ID App and configuring CLI](#initial-setup---manually-creating-entra-id-app-and-configuring-cli)
  - [3. Login to CLI for Microsoft 365 with multiple connections](#3-login-to-cli-for-microsoft-365-with-multiple-connections)
    - [Switch connection and use the CLI](#switch-connection-and-use-the-cli)

## 1. Check the installed version and login status

This is the command which checks the version of the CLI for Microsoft 365 and also checks the login status.

### Get CLI version and login status

Following commands get the version of the CLI for Microsoft 365.

```bash
m365 version
```

Following commands check the login status.

```bash
m365 status
```

## 2. Initial setup for CLI for Microsoft 365

This is the command which sets up the CLI for Microsoft 365. With this command you can select whether you are an expert user or a beginner user.

### Initial setup - with auto setup of Entra ID App

Command to setup CLI for first time.

```bash
m365 setup
```

Once the setup is done, login will be configured to use the newly created Entra ID App.
You will also would need to grant admin consent to the permissions requested by the app.

We will also have to consent the API permission for the app by accessing the Enterprise Application of the newly created App.

#### Testing the command

```bash
m365 pp environment list
```

The above command show the list of Power platform environments in your tenant. 

### Initial setup - Manually creating Entra ID App and configuring CLI

For manually creating the app, you can refer and follow the steps mentioned in the [Using your own Entra Id](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity) section.

## 3. Login to CLI for Microsoft 365 with multiple connections

CLI allows you to login to multiple M365 tenants or with multiple users within the same tenant. You can even login with multiple account types, for e.g., using Device Code, Client Id and Secret, Certificate, etc.

With the below script it allows you to login with proper connection name

```bash
m365 login --connectionName "AUM365-Arjun"
```

This logs in to the CLI with the connection name "AUM365-Arjun".

For getting the list of connections, you can use the below command.

```bash
m365 connection list
```

### Switch connection and use the CLI

You can easily switch connection with multiple connections using the below command.

```bash
m365 connection use --name "AUM365-Arjun"
```

You can see the differences when you execute the same command with different connections.

```bash
m365 entra user list
```

Now you can switch the connection and see the differences.

```bash
m365 connection use --name "MVPTenant-Arjun"
m365 entra user list
```
