# Manage your M365 tenants by using super powerful commands

<!-- Add the Index -->
## Index

- [Manage your M365 tenants by using super powerful commands](#manage-your-m365-tenants-by-using-super-powerful-commands)
  - [Index](#index)
  - [1. Show the inventory of Power Automate running in your tenant](#1-show-the-inventory-of-power-automate-running-in-your-tenant)
  - [2. Get the health update of M365 services](#2-get-the-health-update-of-m365-services)
  - [3. Entra ID Apps and its management](#3-entra-id-apps-and-its-management)
  - [4. Other cool tips and commands](#4-other-cool-tips-and-commands)
    - [4.1 Getting Accesstoken](#41-getting-accesstoken)
    - [4.2 Calling other APIs from the CLI](#42-calling-other-apis-from-the-cli)

## 1. Show the inventory of Power Automate running in your tenant

Below command show the list of environment in your tenant.

```bash
m365 flow environment list
```

Then use the following command to get the list of Flows

```bash
m365 flow list --environmentName 9e6bdf7a-9778-e89a-9f48-0583ef4947d8
```

## 2. Get the health update of M365 services

Imagine a scenario where you want to build an automatic solution to notify you when there is an outage to your services. You can use the below command to get the health status of the services.

Following command shows the status of all the services in your tenant.

```bash
m365 tenant serviceannouncement health list --issues
```

Following command shows the status of the services which are not operational

```bash
m365 tenant serviceannouncement health list --issues --query "[?status != 'serviceOperational']"
```

## 3. Entra ID Apps and its management

Entra Id app is needed if you want to access M365 Services from your application. Be it, Teams application or any API layers. With the following command you create an Entra Id app with needed Grpah API Permissions and get the client secret.

```bash

 m365 entra app add --name 'ELI 25 - Auto Created' --apisApplication 'https://graph.microsoft.com/Group.ReadWrite.All' --grantAdminConsent

```

Similarly you can also create a script which deletes the Entra id app which was created say 10 days back

```bash

# List all Entra ID apps in the tenant with sequence number and appId only
m365 entra app list --output json | jq -r '.[] | .appId' | nl -v 1 | while read -r line; do
  seq=$(echo "$line" | awk '{print $1}')
  appId=$(echo "$line" | awk '{print $2}')
  echo "Deleting app : [$seq] $appId"
  m365 entra app remove --appId $appId --force
done
```

## 4. Other cool tips and commands

Some of the other cool features which you can do with the CLI. 

### 4.1 Getting Accesstoken

Imagine if you want to get the accesstoken for a specific scope. You can use the below command to get the accesstoken.

The advantage is you can use the same accesstoken to be used in other applications for testing purpose, be it Postman or any other application.

```bash
m365 util accesstoken get --resource Graph
```

You can understand the details about the token by visiting [this url](https://jwt.ms/)

### 4.2 Calling other APIs from the CLI

Imagine if you want to call any API end point using CLI which is not available in the CLI. You can use the below command to call the API.

```bash
m365 request --url "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/me"
```
